Docs/ce 470 locality aware (#19071)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/manage-traffic/limit-request-rates.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Limit request rates to services in the mesh
description: Learn how to limit the rate of requests to services in a Consul service mesh. Rate limits on requests improves network resilience and availability
---

# Limit request rates to services in the mesh

This topic describes how to configure Consul to limit the request rate to services in the mesh.

## Introduction

> Consul allows you to configure settings to limit the rate of HTTP requests a service receives from sources on  the mesh. Limiting request rates is one strategy for building a resilient and highly-available network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul allows you to configure settings to limit the rate of HTTP requests a service receives from sources in the mesh. Limiting request rates is one strategy for building a resilient and highly-available network.
```

Reviewer: Not sure which is preferred actually. "In" sounds more natural to me

Consul applies rate limits per service instance. As an example, if you specify a rate limit of 100 requests per second (RPS) for a service and five instances of the service are available, the service accepts a total of 500 RPS, which equals 100 RPS per instance.

> You can limit request rates for all traffic to a service and set rate limits for specific URL paths on a service When multiple rate limits are configured on a service, the rate limit with the longest matching path will be applied to a request. This means that the theoretical maximum RPS for a service is the sum of the rate limits configured on that service times the number of that service’s instances deployed. 

Reviewer: Envoy filters actually take the first path match, not the longest.
```suggestion
You can limit request rates for all traffic to a service and set rate limits for specific URL paths on a service. When multiple rate limits are configured on a service, the first matching path's rate limit will be applied to a request. This means that the theoretical maximum RPS for a service is the rate limit configured on that service or path times the number of that service’s instances deployed. 
```

## Requirements

> Consul v.1.17.x or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul v1.17.x or later
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Kubernetes">

1. `spec.rateLimits.instanceLevel.requestPerSecond`: Set an average number of requests per second that Consul should allow to the service. The number of requests may momentarily exceed this value up to the value specified in the `requestsMaxBurst` parameter, but Consul temporarily lowers the speed of the transactions.
1. `spec.rateLimits.instanceLevel.requestsMaxBurst`: Set the maximum number of concurrent requests that Consul momentarily allows to the service. Consul blocks any additional requests over this limit.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Refer to the [service defaults configuration entry reference](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults) for configuration details and example configurations.  

## Specify request rate limits for specific paths

Specify request rate limits in the service defaults configuration entry. Create or edit the existing service defaults configuration entry for your service and configure the following parameters:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="VMs">

1. Add a `RateLimits.InstanceLevel.Routes` block to the configuration entry. The block contains the limits and matching criteria for determining which paths to set limits on. 

> 1. In the `Routes` block, configure one of the following match criteria for enabling Consul to determine which path to set the limits on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `Routes` block, configure one of the following match criteria to determine which path to set the limits on:
```

>    - PathExact`: Specifies the exact path to match on the request path. When using this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `PathExact`: Specifies the exact path to match on the request path.
```
